[TITLE]
2 arrested for keeping live corals in fish tanks

[BODY]
Kolkata: Two aquarium hobbyists from New Town and Kasba were arrested by forest officials and are in jail custody for a week for decorating their fish tanks with live corals, a marine species protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act and banned for home possession by the Indian government.The two men in their 30s – a professional photographer from Jatragachhi in New Town and a techie from Rajdanga in Kasba – are marine hobbyists for years and had placed live corals worth lakhs inside the large fish tanks.Corals are marine invertebrates that attach themselves to rocky intertidal regions or the ocean floor and are carnivorous animals. Corals are Schedule 1 species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, meaning corals have the same protection as that of a tiger or a leopard. They were booked under sections 9, 39, 40, 44, 48, 49A of Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The quantum of punishment can lead to jail terms of three to seven years.Officers of Wildlife Crime Control Cell and Data Management Unit of the state forest department said they raided the houses acting on an intelligence unit. “We came to know that the New Town resident was looking for a technician who can repair the PH balance mechanism in his fish tanks to keep the corals alive, which is banned in India. We first called him posing as a technician and later raided his house to find live corals worth more than a lakh from his fish tanks. He knew they were illegal and had sourced them from a dealer in north Kolkata. We are looking for him as well,” said a senior officer of the department. The other person from Kasba was also arrested for questioning.The species have been indentified as reef building corals, which are deep sea corals, found in Lakshwadeep and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, used to make jewellery, medicines, decorative items, and even used in Vastu.TOI tried to speak to family members of the arrested men who claimed they had no knowledge about the illegality of the decorative items but refused to share any details about the places from where they had procured the items.“The collection of corals, be it dead or alive, is completely banned under Indian laws. They can neither be exported nor imported. However, there is an illegal black market for these types of corals, especially across Southeast Asia. The two men were arrested as they knew what they were buying was illegal. They had no purchase bills and couldn’t provide any documents that could lead us to believe that they had bought the corals accidentally,” said the officer.